[shelly] Support for Duo, EM3, DW, Smoke, Addon; new CoAP-based updates; bug fixes (#6985)
openhab/openhab-addons: bundles/org.openhab.binding.shelly/README.md

This should be available for all devices.
Older versions work in general, but have impacts to functionality (e.g. no events for battery powered devices).

The binding displays a WARNING in the log if the firmware is older.
It also informs you when an update is available.
Use the device' web ui or the Shelly App to perform the update.

## Other resources

Check the following resources for additional information

## Discovery

The binding uses mDNS to discover the Shelly devices.
They periodically announce their presence, which is used by the binding to find them on the local network.

Sometimes you need to run the manual discovery multiple times until you see all your devices.

### Dynamic creation of channels

The Shelly series of devices has many combinations of relays, meters (different versions), sensors etc. For this the binding creates various channels dynamically based on the status information provided by the device at initialization time. 
If a channel is missing make sure the thing was discovered correctly and is ONLINE. If a channel is missing delete the thing and re-discover it.

### Important for battery power devices

> Make sure to wake-up battery powered devices (press the button inside the device), so that they show up on the network.

Author: changed

The device has a push button inside, open the case, press that button and the LED starts blinking.
The device should show up in the Inbox and can be added.

`
Important: If device is in sleep mode and can't be reached by the binding, the Thing will change into UNKNOWN state.

> Once the device wakes up the thing does the initialization and the state changes to ONLINE.

Author: changed

`

> Once the device is discovered and initialized successful the binding is able to perform an auto-initialization when OH was restarted in between. The device wake-up triggers the event URL and/or CoIoT packet, which is processed by the binding and triggers the initialization.

Author: changed

> So you don't need to manually wake-up the devices after an openHAB restart.

Author: changed

> Devices having no battery are expected to be ON/reachable on the network all the time.

Author: changed

Otherwise the thing will go OFFLINE with COMMUNICATION_ERROR as status.

### Re-discover when IP address has changed
 
Important: The IP address should not be changed after the device is added to openHAB.

This can be achieved by

- assigning a static IP address or
- using DHCP and setup the router to always assign the same IP address to the device

> When you change the IP address for a specific reason you need to delete the Thing and re-discover the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the IP address changes for a device you need to delete the Thing and then re-discover the device.
```

Author: changed

|----------|-------------|---------|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|relay     |output       |Switch   |r/w      |Controls the relay's output channel (on/off)                                     |
|          |input        |Switch   |yes      |ON: Input/Button is powered, see General Notes on Channels                       |

> |sensors   |temperature1 |Number   |yes      |Temperature value of external sensor #1 (if connected to to temp/hum addon)      |

Author: fixed

|          |autoOff      |Number   |r/w      |Sets a  timer to turn the device OFF after every ON: in sec            |
|          |timerActive  |Switch   |yes      |ON: An auto-on/off timer is active                                     |
|white     |             |         |         |Color settings: only valid in WHITE mode                               |
|          |temperature  |Number   |r/w      |color temperature (K): 0..100% or 2700..6500                           |
|          |brightness   |Dimmer   |         |Brightness: 0..100% or 0..100                                          |
|meter     |currentWatts |Number   |yes      |Current power consumption in Watts                                               |
|          |lastPower1   |Number   |yes      |Energy consumption in Watts for a round minute, 1 minute  ago                    |
|          |lastPower2   |Number   |yes      |Energy consumption in Watts for a round minute, 2 minutes ago                    |
|          |lastPower3   |Number   |yes      |Energy consumption in Watts for a round minute, 3 minutes ago                    |

> |          |totalKWH     |Number   |yes      |Total energy consumption in Watts since the device powered up (reset on restart) |

Author: fixed

|          |autoOn       |Number   |r/w      |Sets a  timer to turn the device ON after every OFF command; in seconds|
|          |autoOff      |Number   |r/w      |Sets a  timer to turn the device OFF after every ON command; in seconds|
|          |timerActive  |Switch   |yes      |ON: An auto-on/off timer is active                                     |
|channel4  |brightness   |Dimmer   |r/w      |Channel 5: Brightness: 0..100, control power state with ON/OFF         |
|          |button       |Trigger  |yes      |Event trigger with payload SHORT_PRESSED or LONG_PRESSED (FW 1.5.6+)   |
|          |autoOn       |Number   |r/w      |Sets a  timer to turn the device ON after every OFF command; in seconds|
|          |autoOff      |Number   |r/w      |Sets a  timer to turn the device OFF after every ON command; in seconds|
|          |timerActive  |Switch   |yes      |ON: An auto-on/off timer is active                                     |
|meter     |currentWatts |Number   |yes      |Current power consumption in Watts (all channels)                                   |

Please note that the settings of channel group color are only valid in color mode and vice versa for white mode.

> The current firmware doesn't support the timestamp report for the meters. 

Author: changed
